Parent and children aggregations (#9722)
opensearch-project/documentation-website: _aggregations/bucket/parent.md

---
layout: default
title: Parent
parent: Bucket aggregations
nav_order: 145

> redirect_from:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

>   - /query-dsl/aggregations/bucket/parent/

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - /query-dsl/aggregations/bucket/parent/
```

---

# Parent aggregations

The `parent` aggregation is a bucket aggregation that creates a single bucket containing parent documents, based on parent-child relationships defined in your index. This aggregation enables you to perform analytics on parent documents that have the same matching child documents, allowing for powerful hierarchical data analysis.

The `parent` aggregation works with the [`join` field type]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/field-types/supported-field-types/join/), which establishes parent-child relationships within documents in the same index.

> The `parent` aggregation identifies parent documents that have matching child documents, whereas the [`children` aggregation]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/aggregations/bucket/children/) identifies child documents that have matching parent documents. Both aggregations take the child relation name as input, but they operate in opposite directions across the parent-child relationship.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `parent` aggregation identifies parent documents that have matching child documents, whereas the [`children` aggregation]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/aggregations/bucket/children/) identifies child documents that match certain child relation. Both aggregations take the child relation name as input.
```

---
layout: default
title: Parent
parent: Bucket aggregations
nav_order: 145
redirect_from:
  - /query-dsl/aggregations/bucket/parent/
---

# Parent aggregations

The `parent` aggregation is a bucket aggregation that creates parent buckets based on parent-child relationships defined in your documents. This aggregation enables you to perform analytics operations across parent documents that have matching child documents, allowing for powerful hierarchical data analysis.

The `parent` aggregation works with the [`join` field type]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/field-types/supported-field-types/join/), which establishes parent-child relationships within documents in the same index.

> The `parent` aggregation provides inverse functionality to the [children aggregation]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/aggregations/bucket/children/). The children aggregation identifies child documents based on matching parent documents; the parent aggregation identifies parent documents based on matching child documents.

Reviewer: Thanks! Reworded.

## Example

The following example builds a small company database with three employees. The employee records each have a child `join` relationship with a parent department record.

### Example: mappings

First, this `PUT` request creates a `company` index with a `join` field that maps departments (parents) to employees (children):

```json
PUT /company
{
  "mappings": {
    "properties": {
      "join_field": {
        "type": "join",
        "relations": {
          "department": "employee"
        }
      },
      "department_name": {
        "type": "keyword"
      },
      "employee_name": {
        "type": "keyword"
      },
      "salary": {
        "type": "double"
      },
      "hire_date": {
        "type": "date"
      }
    }
  }
}
```
{% include copy-curl.html %}

### Example: data

Next, this bulk `POST` request populates the data with three departments and three employees. The parent-child assignments are:

| Department (parent) | Employees (children) |
| :-- | :-- |
| `Accounting` | `Abel Anderson`, `Betty Billings` |
| `Engineering` | `Carl Carter` |
| `HR` | none |

```json

> POST _bulk?routing=1

Reviewer: Added for both parent and child pages.
